in the office in the 8th floor of the Rudder Tower
and I have the pleasure and honor of chatting with
Weldon Kruger. Now I'm going to stop the machine
and see if it's working.
A minute ago I did not get on the machine that this is
March 24. Weldon, why did you come to A&M in the
first place? What led you here instead of
somewhere else? Well, that's a good question. I
grew up in Brenham. I wasn't sure I could go to
college anywhere. I didn't realize that you could
really work your way through a place like A&M like
you could back in those days. And I was sort of
oriented toward TU because my sister's husband, a
veteran from World War II, was a student there, and
they were particularly impressed with the
university, I guess, and kept working on me. But
there's a fellow by the name of Howard Perry who
worked for A&M for a long time in Utah not too many
years ago. He was a high school teacher of mine for a
couple of years. And he kept talking about A&M. And
I'm not sure whether he was the one in the end, but
someone showed me or told me about the opportunity
awards at A&M. And I remember that I got the forms to
fill out quite late. I had to go over to the
principal's house one evening get him to sign it so
I could get it in the mail on time. And I won an
opportunity award, and that was really, I guess,
the final kicker that got me in this direction.
That big award was how much money? Well, it was
$1,000 over four years, so it was $250 a year, which
was enough at that time to get me through school
pretty well. I worked during the summers, and with
that and the opportunity award, I didn't have to
work when I was here on the campus. So that was good.
Had you been to visit the campus before you decided
you wanted to attend here? Well, as I say, I grew up
in Brenham, so I'd been over here to the football
games primarily. I hadn't really visited any of
the academic things. I knew some other people at
the Aggies. I also had made up my mind the same year
in high school I wanted to be an engineer, a civil
engineer, because that's the only engineer I knew
about. Mainly I wanted to get some kind of
education, and I wanted to go. So I knew Anand had a
great engineering experience. This question
won't be as meaningful to you as it is to other
people. When you came the first time to enroll, how
did you get here? Well, I came with a friend of mine
from Brenham. And I drove over. My dad ran a
business and had a truck. And so he and I came over in
that truck. My dad was very sick that summer, and I
was really running his business for him. So
anyway, a friend of mine from high school came
over. And I don't remember now whether we came to
the campus, because we were going to be at the
annex. That year, the so-called Riverside Campus
was annexed. And I can't remember, but I think
that's where we went and sort of signed up papers
and everything. And then a couple of weeks later,
when it was actually time to come over here to start
school, his parents, both the two of us. What did
you bring when you came to stay? What did you bring
physically? What items? I didn't bring very much.
I had a footlocker because that was one of the
things that they told us that we had to have in the
barracks. I didn't have really a very good, really
wasn't a footlocker, it was sort of an oversized
suitcase that I had. So whatever was in that, I
guess, was what I had. I didn't have any TVs or
radios or anything like that. I didn't need very
much spare equipment. No typewriter or anything
like that? No typewriter, no. All right. Please,
because you're the first one we've chatted with
about the Riverside campaign, about, you all
called it the annex, didn't you? The annex, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. Give me as great a picture of the annex
and life at the annex and the routine as you can.
Well, the annex was... An air force base during
World War II had been built, one of these
temporary, I mean, I guess the government knew it
wasn't going to last. There were a series of
barracks that were, we called them tarpaulin
shacks, because the outside, well, they were
wooden barracks, and the outside was covered with
tarpaulin for the weather. They were very
substantially built, quite warm in the winter.
Behind the line of barracks were a line of
latrines, and in the front was sort of a parade
ground, and across from the parade ground was the
assembly hall and a mess hall, several other
buildings. And then we were fairly close to the
hangars and the flight line, the hard stand in
front of the hangars and all that, and every now and
then that's where we would go out and march. But
there was a road that went right down in front of all
these barracks and that's where we had our morning
and evening formations and march to the mess hall
and that kind of thing. How many and how many of whom
were out there? Well it was essentially all of the
freshman class as far as students go. There were of
course obviously a staff and there were faculty
members that taught the classes, a military
staff. I don't really know how many freshmen there
were but the only freshmen that were not out there
were I suppose people that had maybe military
veterans and athletes because that's why I
remember meeting several of my classmates that
were athletes living in Hart Hall and places that
would come out on the weekends to see friends of
them. There were no sophomores? There were no
sophomores. We had The freshman class out there
was organized into military units, very similar
to the Corps here. But we had our own officers. We
sort of rotated, being platoon leaders or flight
leaders or squadron leaders, company
leaders, whatever. And they had a fish band out
there that was formed, and you could start
playing. It was quite interesting. We were
bothered by sophomores and upperclassmen on
weekends and other times. I think they were
restricted, if I remember right, as to when they
could come out. But I remember, I still remember a
few names of particular ones that would come out,
it seemed like, every weekend of the races. Let's
see, a fish drill team. Didn't it get started out
there? Fish band and the fish drill team? Yeah, I
can't really remember. I think there was a fish
drill team. Were there yell eaters? Did y'all? We
had our own fish yell eaters, yeah. We had our own.
Essentially, we followed the organization on the
campus, but everything was done by freshmen. And
all the courses that freshmen took? Every course I
took that year, I took out there. Do you remember
what those courses were? Well, I remember
particularly taking English, 103 and 104. And in
one of those classes, I had a lady professor. That
was very unusual. It was the only one I ever had
while I was here. Do you remember any of those
teachers by name and qualities? I don't remember
any names. I remember one professor that taught
trigonometry. that had sort of a different
approach to it, and he told us what he was going to
do, and I thought it was marvelous the way he would
do it. He told us that after about two weeks, he
would go back and review what had been taught, and
sort of, as he said, he found that people tend to lag
behind the teacher sometimes, and they get
completely lost. Anyway, he was very nice, and I
thought he was an excellent professor. I can still
sort of see him in my mind, but I don't remember his
name at all. Harrison Hurth was one of the English
teachers I know out there. They still live over
here at Southside. Happy Harry would be his later
nickname. I don't know whether... There's a man by
the name, I believe, of Randolph that was sort of
the head of the freshman orientation program and
gave a lot of the talks, and he's still out there.
But he was the one that said, I guess this is famous
around here, but... He told us one first week we
were there, all right, everybody look to your
right and look to your left. And by the time you
graduate, half of you will be gone. Just make sure
you're one of the ones that's still here. So there
was very little hazing. Very little. Y'all didn't
do the duck walks and the push-ups and all that that
would later be normal for freshmen. No. Push-ups
and all that came much later. We didn't do that kind
of thing. Describe a typical weekday, class day,
from whenever getting up. Go through a whole day
describing it, please. Well, I don't remember the
time, but we were, I guess, awakened at a certain
time in the morning by a bugle. And I had a morning
formation, marched off to ,, came back and took
care of whatever we needed to do, and then went to
our classes, which were all during the week, plus
Saturday morning. All the time I was at A&M, we had
Saturday classes. And it depended out there on
what your class schedule was. But they were all
pretty compact, so you could move around pretty
well from classroom to classroom. It wasn't like
the big campus here. I do remember that it rained a
heck of a lot. We all issued these ponchos that we
called moving pup tents. And we had these helmet
liners that we all issued. So it seemed like it
rained an awful lot that year. Did you march to all
meals? I'm not sure about the noon meal. I know we
marched to morning and evening. What did you all do
in the afternoons if you weren't in class?
We had some core activities, core drills, just
like they would at campus, like they do these days.
And if you were in the band, you had band practice.
You mentioned the fish drill team. I think there
was a starter one out there, and they did that.
Other than that, we would play ball, have our own
little pick-up games, basketball and football in
between the barracks. That kind of thing. What did
you all do in the evenings once the sun went down?
Well, after the noon meal and once the sun went
down, I'm not sure that's the exact time, but soon
thereafter, we were supposed to be in the barracks
studying, and we were. And the, what we called
attack officers, the military cavalry, they were
out there and made sure that we were. And they would
come around and check on things. And you were
either in the barracks to study or you had to go out
to the latrine. That was an excuse. And that went on
until taps. And then you had about 30 minutes to get
yourself ready for bed and be in bed with the lights
out. And where did you all go on the weekends or any
other time when you were off? When could you
legally be off that campus? Legally, I'm not sure,
but I think just on the weekends for court trips, we
made those. We were very much encouraged to make
them. I can't really remember for sure. I didn't
have a vehicle, a car. Very few of us had a car when we
were out there. There were very few cars. And I
really didn't
go. So I can't really remember for sure what the
restrictions were. I do remember my dad passed
away during that semester. And I guess maybe
because I was going to have to miss some classes, I
remember going down and talking to the military
advisor and giving them essentially a pass. And I
don't know whether he had to do that. I'm sure you
would have to do that to leave during the middle of
the week. I'm not sure about you. All right. Were
there any kind of wild places where Aggie freshmen
would go, whether legal or otherwise?
You know, I really... Where did somebody go to buy
whiskey? Buy whiskey? Well, I think Brazos County
was dry. Mm-hmm. And... I don't remember anything
across the bridge there on Highway 21, but there
may have been something there. You could go to
Caldwell and get
whatever they did. I'm not sure they did. That's a
pretty good piece. It wasn't like Whiskey Bridge
out here on Highway 50. I don't remember anything
like that anywhere. Now, did you all have Aggie
slang? out there for food? Yeah, we were taught the
typical Aggies course line that part of it's still
used today. But you all didn't whip out? We whipped
out. We were taught to whip out. No, but to each
other out there? We were taught pretty early on to
whip out to each other, get to know all your
classmates. And we were certainly taught to whip
out when the sophomores came out there on the
weekend. You know, in that whipping out business,
of course, that's the real basis for it, going way
back, is to get to know everybody. Know where
they're from and what they're taking, what their
major is, that kind of thing. But I wanted to say
this earlier. Looking back on it, and I've talked
to a number of my classmates, our class is very
close still. We're coming up on our 45th reunion.
And a good part of that, I'm sure, is because we were
all out there together. We got to know practically
every one of us, most everybody, as opposed to
being scattered on the campus. Even if you're in
the Corps, you still don't get to know kids in the
other units like you would when you're all out
there and all those together. Discuss the
diversity in that group. Were there any
Hispanics? There were a number of Hispanics in our
class. We didn't even think about diversity or
minorities or anything. It was just they were
there, and they were good friends and good people.
Jewish? I'm sure they were. Yeah, in fact, I can
think of a couple of those that were Jewish. Any
Asian, Chinese? I don't remember any by
appearance. There may have been some with foreign
extraction. Any from another country? I don't
remember any foreign students at that time. Let's
see. How did you all dress for class? We dressed in
the uniform of the day. And, you know, I didn't
realize until just a few months ago that there were
some civilian freshmen out there with us. And one
boy that I ended up graduating with, I didn't
realize it. I knew he wasn't in the Corps the whole
time. I knew he had a physical disability. But when
he came back, down here in Amon as a question with
that disability, he and two or three friends of
his, all from the same high school, convinced the
authorities to let him come out there to the annex
and be a part of everything and live with those
other boys. And they sort of watched him and took
care of him and all that. And so there were some
civilians out there. And he didn't wear a uniform?
He didn't. He was not in the corps because he
couldn't pass the visitation. Can you describe
any of the jokes or pranks or other good bull that
you knew about during those days? Well, let me see
if I can remember the right chemistry here, but I
remember one time I blew up one of the latrines by
flushing something down the toilet. And now I
can't remember what the compound is, but it reacts
pretty violently with water. And all you've got to
do is drop it in there and flush and run about as fast
as you can do, I guess, to get out of it. So that kind
of thing went on. Were there any tricks played on
other students? Yeah, there were always people
that were mentioned earlier. The so-called
bulls, the military advisors, they were trying to
keep all the things under control.
They had their hands full every now and then with
one barracks trying to do something to the other
barracks. All good, clean phone, but Now, did
students out there have part-time jobs the way
some on the campus did? I'm sure some, yeah. Some
worked in the mess hall, I remember that. But there
weren't too many, you know, if you think about it,
there weren't too many jobs out there. I'm sure
they worked a little bit with the ground
maintenance crews and maybe even some of the
repair crews, because like anything, you have to
keep everything functioning. Now, this was the
fall of? This would have been the fall of 1949. And
that, was that, how many years had that, That
wasn't the first year, was it? That wasn't the
first year, but it was the last. Oh, it was the last
year. It was the last year because that air base was
reactivated in the Korean War. Then you came to the
main campus as a sophomore. Tell about being a
sophomore in the Corps. Okay. I thought I was very
lucky. There was a... a junior in what at that time
was called H-Air Force. It later became Squadron
10, a core unit. And he came around talking to
people. He said, I want to have the best unit on the
campus next year. We want to win the General Moore
trophy for the outstanding unit overall,
academic, athletics, everything, marching,
whatever. And so he recruited. with that in mind,
and he made it known that, you know, if you wanted a
bunch of bull, you weren't, you didn't need to come
to that meeting. And I've always looked back on
that and thought, isn't that marvelous? That guy
had foresight, and we did win the general board
that year, and two more years after that, three
years running, and maybe beyond that, I don't
know. I don't want to find out about that, because I
remember talking one time to around Ray Bowen and
mentioned Squadron 10. And he said, well, I was in
Squadron 10. And I said, well, I don't know. Class
of 58? And he said, well, you won the general
military. So I've got to do some checking on it. But
I know the three years I was in the Corps on the
campus here, we won it. And I look back and say it was
all due to that fellow that really got it started.
Do you remember his name? Doug Hearn, down over in
Blanco or somewhere around Blanco or something
like that. Oh, now that might be important. In
those days, it was the Air Force. It was just Army.
It was just Army. And Air Force. So already there
were Army, I mean already there were Air Force.
Yes, yes. It was about, I'd say, roughly maybe a
third or a little bit much of Air Force and Army. And
the Army had all the branches. They had artillery,
armor. How did the typical sophomore, your
sophomore year, relate to freshman? Well, okay,
we came to the campus and we were, you might say, we
were the freshmen in the units in the main corps
because the annex was closed down, but they
brought the freshmen in to the northern part of the
campus and kept them separate from the rest of the
corps, sophomores, juniors, and seniors that
were in what's called the new area in South
Portland and they did have they did change though
they they put a cadre of upperclassmen over with
the freshmen and that went on the whole time that I
was yeah even when my senior year that was still
going on. Did you sophomores get to serve the
juniors and seniors the way freshmen would have?
No, not in my particular unit. There was some of
that because we were the lowest classmen, and
there was a little bit during meals and that kind of
thing, but not very much. So, as I say, my
particular unit, our company commander and first
sergeant were so intent on excellence in all
things, they weren't too pushy on a lot of the
little stuff that All right, so then your unit
didn't have much pranking and good bull and
stunts? We had some. Do you remember any? Do you
remember any here on the campus that are tellable?
Well, you know, you always have the drown outs
where somebody would come in your room and while
you were asleep and gradually, sometimes
gradually, sometimes just pour it on top of you,
but usually just slide some water under you and let
you sink in, that kind of thing. I remember one time
when there was some tear gas used in the dormitory.
And the deal there was you just, I don't know how
people got tear gas, but you could just walk down
the hall trailing it behind you and it took a while
to vaporize and you'd be out of there before. And
then you look back and all the people were coming
out of the door and was crying. That kind of thing
went on. But we didn't do a lot of things like I heard
about when you came. Who were some of the memorable
teachers, advisors, counselors, staff members
that you remember from your student years? Well, I
remember, I mentioned earlier Howard Perry. I
remember he, I guess it was my sophomore year, he
left Brenham and came over here and became a tack
officer in the Corps. And I thought he became quite
popular because he just had the knack of working
with people and working with cadets. Some of the
TAC officers weren't too popular, but he had the
knack of giving you demerits and you'd smile about
it. A little bit later, the dean of engineering, a
fellow named Barlow, Dr. Barlow, who left before I
graduated, but he did a lot of things with the
students and they all thought he was top-notch. Of
course, the president, Tom Harrington, he's very
well known. Describe Dr. Harrington. Well, Dr.
Harrington was a tall, angular kind of guy, very
friendly. Had been a, I guess made his name in the
first place as being an excellent chemistry
professor. But by the time I got to know him, he was a
top administrator. And I remember introducing
him to my dad, who's now my wife, She was from
McKinney, and he said, oh, a Collin County girl.
And it turned out he had grown up in a little town of
Plano up there. So they got along just fine. But I
always liked Tom Harrington very much. I thought
he did an outstanding job.
Other faculty and staff? Well, I don't remember.
Well, I do remember. I sort of said I don't remember
any sophomore But I do remember a man that taught
calculus in my sophomore year. And again, I can't
remember his name. I can sort of see him in my mind.
But I thought he was an excellent teacher. I can
remember all the professors that I had over at
Petroleum Engineering, because that was a fairly
small department. And there were four or five
professors, essentially. And I got to know them
all very well. And when I stayed over the next few
years and got my master's, I got to know them even
better. So still. Why did you pick petroleum
engineering? Well, I said way back there, I came
over and wanted to be a civil engineer. And I got
this opportunity award. And it was given by a man by
the name of Toddy Lee Wynn from Dallas, who was in
the petroleum bit. And it was for a petroleum
engineer, and that bothered me. So I went to see
E.E. McQuillan, who had been around the campus
forever. He'd been the executive director of the
Performing Students Association at one point. At
that time was, I don't know what all he was doing,
but at least he was in charge of the scholarships.
So I went in to see Mr. McQuillan, and I said, I want
to be a civil engineer. not a petroleum engineer.
And this is for a petroleum engineer. And he said,
well, my understanding is that all engineering
students take the same courses the first year,
probably the first two years. Is that right? And I
said, well, that's what I think that's right.
Well, why don't you just keep on going here, take
those courses, and at the end, at some point, if you
still want to be a civil engineer, we'll talk to Mr.
Wynn about it and see what he did. Well, just the
fact that I had this thing I got to looking around
and thinking about petroleum. I even went over and
talked to some people in the petroleum
department. I got very interested in it and
decided I went back to Mr. McClellan at the end of my
freshman year and said, don't bother Mr.
McClellan. I'm happy. I'm going to stay with
petroleum and see how that goes. I've never
regretted that at all. It turned out to be
marvelous. Do you remember any of the faculty
nicknames? Yes. There were quite a few. There was
Cube Root Kent, Square Root Jackson. The
nicknames and why? Well, I suppose those first two
I mentioned were in the mathematics program. I'm
not sure of that. I just remember the nickname.
There was another guy. I won't even mention his
last name, but he was known as Hose Nose for obvious
reasons. He had a big, long nose. Another fellow, I
won't mention his last name either. He was called
Plumbob because he was sort of shaped like
Plumbob. There were a number of names like that.
Did you have any of the history teachers that had
those nicknames? I don't think, I hate to tell you
this, but I don't think I took a history course
here. In those days it wasn't required. Well it
was, but I took American history and I guess we have
to take Texas history. I took them by
correspondence in the summer. What were the rules
of classroom attendance and behavior that you and
your fellow students assumed? Well, attendance
was very much encouraged by the different units in
the Corps. And I should say, some encouraged it
very much, the one I was in very, very much, and
others not so much, unfortunately.
But as far as if you were in the classroom,
The professors made damn sure that you were
behaving yourself, let's say that. Early on in
some of the big lecture halls, chemistry and so on,
two or three hundred students listening to a
lecture, there were some people dozing and
sleeping and whatever. And I guess the professor
couldn't see everybody. But when you got into
other classes, I know over in the petroleum
department, if you nodded off, people walked down
the aisle and waked you up. Make sure you were
listening. Let's see, MSC, did it come into being?
The MSC opened, it seemed like it was my freshman
year, but it may have been my sophomore year when we
had the grand opening. So we were very lucky to have
that. What role did it play in student life? Well,
it became sort of the living room of the campus, and
that's the place you could go in. or fight to eat in
the cafeteria, a different kind of thing from the
mess hall. You could go there and the parents came
and you could meet them there and take them there if
they were here visiting. A girlfriend came, that
would be a place, this kind of thing. It was also, at
that time, we didn't have telephones in any of the
rooms or any of the dorms, so if you wanted to make a
telephone call or got a telephone call from
somebody, The messenger came to get you if you got
one, and you'd go to MSC. You had a bank of
telephones there. It was always very much used in
MSC. That's where you made your telephone calls.
And MSC activities, what was included in the
activities within there? Well, there was an MSC
council, just like there is today. And I remember
Lamar McLuhan, my class, was an MSC council
chairman. I don't remember too much of the
activities. I wasn't, I guess, directly
involved. I wasn't on the council, I don't
believe, my senior year. And I wasn't too much
directly involved. I don't think it was just
getting rolling, just getting started. We didn't
have the number of programs that we have now. But we
did have a cultural program called the Town Hall,
which I think came under the MSC organization. And
I was on the Town Hall committee.